# PHILOSOPHY

- **Comedy is a coping mechanism.** If you can get people to look at their problems in a different way, and separate themselves from reality for a moment, you can get them to laugh. Mark Twain said that there's no laughter in Heaven. The only time a person laughs when everything is perfect is when they're staring deep into their lover's eyes. That's very difficult to do with an audience of any size.
- **Comedy is about connecting and relating to other people.** When a joke falls flat, it might be because people don't get it. It might be because you told it the wrong way. When you tell a joke the right way, you've set the audience on a journey of understanding you and relating to you. Sometimes people may not be able to cope with some trouble in their lives, or they may consider a topic too sacred, but with enough time, or under the right circumstances, you can form a connection with anyone. When you form a connection with an audience, and you get the entire audience laughing, the audience members have also formed a connection with each other. Everyone may have different experiences, but when everyone relates to a joke, they've formed a community, even if just for a moment.
- **Laughter is involuntary. And that's powerful.** Human beings will laugh under the most extreme conditions; it is only after they are broken that human beings stop laughing. The most powerful moment in any tragic film is that scene where children are playing and laughing in the midst of horrible circumstances only obvious to the adult characters and/or the audience. When you get people to laugh, you have created a world for them in which their burdens and fears are manageable. As long as you can laugh, you still have a chance at winning. It's bleak, but it holds true under extreme conditions.
- **Comics wield enormous power over people.** When you know what buttons to push in order to get an involuntary emotional response out of someone, it feels a little bit like having a superpower. You can't get them to do your bidding or anything slightly nefarious like that, but you've hit upon something that they identify with, and you can exploit that to make them happy for a moment.
- **Nothing is sacred.** Nothing is sacred except the truth with one exception. As long as the audience accepts the premise of the joke (doesn't have to be true, maybe just a cultural memory that you allude to), it's up to you to make it funny. Also, Tragedy + Time = Comedy. The better you are, the less time you need to make a joke about a tragedy.
- **Comedy is an art form that places enormous responsibility on the audience.** When audience members get offended, or complain that some material is off limits, or start believing that the comedian on stage is the character he/she portrays, it's like dancing with a bad partner. Even the best lead can't make up for a bad follow. It literally and figuratively takes two to tango.
